.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" (C) Copyright 2019 Evangelos Rigas <e.rigas@cranfield.ac.uk>,
.\"
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH CPUPOWER-GUI 1 "September 20 2019"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
cpupower-gui \- Set the scaling frequencies and governor of a CPU
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cpupower-gui

.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the \fBcpupower-gui\fP command.
.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics,
.\" respectively.
\fBcpupower-gui\fP is a graphical (GUI) utility to change the CPU frequency.
.br
This utility can change the operating frequency of the CPU for each core separately.
Additionally, the cpu governor can be changed.
The program can detect offline cores and only present the available ones.
Furthermore, if a core doesn't support frequency scaling, is not shown.
There is also an option to apply the same settings to all cores simultaneously.
.br
To apply the settings, the user must be \fIlocal\fP and \fIactive\fP, as well as in group \fBsudo\fP.
Local and active users not in this group must authenticate themselves as admin in order to apply the settings.
.br

The \fIcpupower-gui\fP program can be configured using the configuration file in \fB/etc/cpupower_gui.conf\fP. Files that are stored in \fB/etc/cpupower_gui.d/\fP take precedence over the main configuration file. The files are read in a lexicographic order and the last files override the first.
.br
Apart from the main configuration users can store their customisations under \fB~/.config/cpupower_gui/\fP. Files read from this location will override the system configuration.
.br

Custom frequency settings are stored in \fI*.profile\fP files and user can use them to quickly apply their preferred settings.
Theses files are simple text files where the first line contains the name that the profile will be known as and the rest of the file contains CPU settings in a table-like format.An example profile file is located at \fB/etc/cpupower_gui.d/my_profile.profile.ex\fP.
.br

On some platforms there is the ability to change the energy performance preferences.
These feature is available on Intel systems that use the \fIintel_pstate\fP driver.
.br

.SH SEE ALSO
cpupower(1), cpupower-set(1), cpupower-info(1), cpupower-idle(1), cpupower-frequency-set(1), cpupower-frequency-info(1), cpupower-monitor(1), powertop(1)
.br

.SH AUTHORS
Evangelos Rigas <erigas@rnd2.org>
.br
Chinese translation written by yjwork-cn
.br
Dutch translation written by Heimen Stoffels <vistausss@outlook.com>
.br
Hungarian translation written by Barcza Károly <kbarcza@blackpanther.hu>
.br
Italian translation written by Albano Battistella
.br
Indonesian translation written by Andika Triwidada <atriwidada@src.gnome.org>
.br
Brazilian Portuguese translation written by Flávio Costa <guda.flavio@gmail.com>
